docs/user_guide/concepts_utils/collect_results.rst, before:

Collect and store results
=========================
The :class:`~fourinsight.engineroom.utils.ResultCollector` is a useful tool when you want to collect and store results.
The basic usage is illustrated with the examples below.

.. code-block:: python

    from fourinsight.engineroom.utils import ResultCollector


    headers = {"a": float, "b": str} # collect parameter 'a' as 'float' and 'b' as 'string'
    results = ResultCollector(headers)

    # make a new row
    results.new_row()

    # collect some results for that row
    results.collect(a=1.0, b="some text")

    # make another row
    results.new_row()

    # collect some results for the new row
    results.collect(a=1.5, b="some more text")

    # return the results as a 'pandas.DataFrame'
    df = results.dataframe

It is also possible to delete previously collected results with
:meth:`~fourinsight.engineroom.utils.ResultCollector.delete_rows()`
and :meth:`~fourinsight.engineroom.utils.ResultCollector.truncate()`.

If you are dealing with time-dependent results, and want to 'stamp' the results
with a datetime value, this is facilitated by setting 'indexing_mode' to 'timestamp'
during initialization. Then, a datetime value must be passed to :meth:`~fourinsight.engineroom.utils.ResultCollector.new_row()` when
collecting results.

.. code-block:: python

    headers = {"a": float, "b": str}
    results = ResultCollector(headers, indexing_mode="timestamp")

    # stamp the results with a datetime value
    results.new_row("2020-01-01 00:00")

    # and collect your results
    results.collect(a=1.0)


By initializing with a suitable :ref:`handler<text_content_handlers>`, results can
be 'pushed' and 'pulled' from a source.

.. code-block:: python

    # pull the results from an existing source
    results.pull()

    # update the source with the latest results
    results.push()

Commit message:

enh: ResultCollector method for appending dataframes
* Add collect_batch

Function, tests, and documentation updated

* Black formatting

* enh: add alternative to collect_batch

* Change name and method

Utilize collect for better maintanability and less complexity

* sty: fix typo

Co-authored-by: Vegard Rørvik Solum <vegard.solum@4subsea.com>

docs/user_guide/concepts_utils/collect_results.rst, after:

Collect and store results
=========================
The :class:`~fourinsight.engineroom.utils.ResultCollector` is a useful tool when you want to collect and store results.
The basic usage is illustrated with the examples below.

.. code-block:: python

    from fourinsight.engineroom.utils import ResultCollector


    headers = {"a": float, "b": str} # collect parameter 'a' as 'float' and 'b' as 'string'
    results = ResultCollector(headers)

    # make a new row
    results.new_row()

    # collect some results for that row
    results.collect(a=1.0, b="some text")

    # make another row
    results.new_row()

    # collect some results for the new row
    results.collect(a=1.5, b="some more text")

    # collect a dataframe of results
    df = pd.DataFrame(data={"a": [2, 5], "b": ["txt", "even more text"]})
    results.append(df)

    # return the results as a 'pandas.DataFrame'
    df = results.dataframe

It is also possible to delete previously collected results with
:meth:`~fourinsight.engineroom.utils.ResultCollector.delete_rows()`
and :meth:`~fourinsight.engineroom.utils.ResultCollector.truncate()`.

If you are dealing with time-dependent results, and want to 'stamp' the results
with a datetime value, this is facilitated by setting 'indexing_mode' to 'timestamp'
during initialization. Then, a datetime value must be passed to :meth:`~fourinsight.engineroom.utils.ResultCollector.new_row()` when
collecting results. For :meth:`~fourinsight.engineroom.utils.ResultCollector.append()`, the indices of the dataframe must be a datetime.

.. code-block:: python

    headers = {"a": float, "b": str}
    results = ResultCollector(headers, indexing_mode="timestamp")

    # stamp the results with a datetime value
    results.new_row("2020-01-01 00:00")

    # and collect your results
    results.collect(a=1.0)


By initializing with a suitable :ref:`handler<text_content_handlers>`, results can
be 'pushed' and 'pulled' from a source.

.. code-block:: python

    # pull the results from an existing source
    results.pull()

    # update the source with the latest results
    results.push()
