docs/basic_usage.rst, before:

.. py:currentmodule:: fourinsight.engineroom.utils

Basic Usage
===========

Handlers
--------

.. _text_content_handlers:

'Push' and 'pull' text content from a source
............................................

Some of the core functionality provided by :mod:`fourinsight.engineroom.utils` relies
on handlers that facilitate downloading and uploading of text content from a source.
The source can be a local file, an Azure Storage Blob, or other any other suitable
storage place. Downloading and uploading of the text content is provided by a push/pull
strategy; content is retrieved from the source by a ``pull()`` request, and uploaded
to the source by a ``push()``. Two handlers, the :class:`LocalFileHandler` and the
:class:`AzureBlobHandler` are available out-of-the-box. Custom handlers are easily set
up by inheriting from :class:`~fourinsight.engineroom.utils.core.BaseHandler`.

.. note::
    In the Cookbook section there is an :ref:`example<example_custom_handler_ftp>`
    on how you can set up a custom handler based on FTP.

The :class:`LocalFileHandler` is used to store text content in a local file.

.. code-block:: python

    from fourinsight.engineroom.utils import LocalFileHandler


    handler = LocalFileHandler(<file-path>)

The :class:`AzureBlobHandler` is used to store text content in *Azure Blob Storage*.

.. code-block:: python

    from fourinsight.engineroom.utils import AzureBlobHandler


    handler = AzureBlobHandler(<connection-string>, <container-name>, <blob-name>)


State
-----

Sometimes it is useful to remember the current 'state' of your Python application.
Using the :class:`PersistentJSON` class and an appropriate :ref:`handler<text_content_handlers>`,
key state parameters can be stored persistently at a remote location, and be available
next time the application runs.

:class:`PersistentJSON` behaves similar to dictionaries, and can keep track of state
parameters in key/value pairs.

.. code-block:: python

    from fourinsight.engineroom.utils import PersistentJSON


    state = PersistentJSON(handler)

Values can be updated,

.. code-block:: python

    new_state = {"state parameter #1": 0, "State parameter #2": "some value"}
    state.update(new_state)

And retrieved,

.. code-block:: python

    state.get("state parameter #1")

As well as deleted, printed, etc...

.. code-block:: python

    # Delete
    del state["state parameter #1]

    # Print
    print(state)

    # etc...

To store the state for later, you simply just update the source with a :meth:`push()`.

.. code-block:: python

    # Update remote source
    state.push()

Then, the state is available next time you run your script by doing a :meth:`pull()`.

.. code-block:: python

    # Update state from remote source
    state.pull()


Collect and store results
-------------------------
The :class:`ResultCollector` is a useful tool when you want to collect and store results.
The basic usage is illustrated with the examples below.

.. code-block:: python

    from fourinsight.engineroom.utils import ResultCollector


    headers = {"a": float, "b": str} # collect parameter 'a' as 'float' and 'b' as 'string'
    results = ResultCollector(headers)

    # make a new row
    results.new_row()

    # collect some results for that row
    results.collect(a=1.0, b="some text")

    # make another row
    results.new_row()

    # collect some results for the new row
    results.collect(a=1.5, b="some more text")

    # return the results as a 'pandas.DataFrame'
    df = results.dataframe


If you are dealing with time-dependent results, and want to 'stamp' the results
with a datetime value, this is facilitated by setting 'indexing_mode' to 'timestamp'
during initialization. Then, a datetime value must be passed to :meth:`.new_row()` when
collecting results.

.. code-block:: python

    headers = {"a": float, "b": str}
    results = ResultCollector(headers, indexing_mode="timestamp")

    # stamp the results with a datetime value
    results.new_row("2020-01-01 00:00")

    # and collect your results
    results.collect(a=1.0)


By initializing with a suitable :ref:`handler<text_content_handlers>`, results can
be pushed and pulled from a source.

.. code-block:: python

    headers = {"a": float, "b": str}
    results = ResultCollector(headers, handler=handler)

    # pull the results from an existing source
    results.pull()

    # make a new row
    results.new_row()

    # collect some more results
    results.collect(a=1.0)

    # update the source with the latest results
    results.push()

Commit message:

feat: make handlers behave like streams [dst-128]

docs/basic_usage.rst, after:

.. py:currentmodule:: fourinsight.engineroom.utils

Basic Usage
===========

Handlers
--------

.. _text_content_handlers:

'Push' and 'pull' text content from a source
............................................

Some of the core functionality provided by :mod:`fourinsight.engineroom.utils` relies
on handlers that facilitate downloading and uploading of text content from a source.
The source can be a local file, an Azure Storage Blob, or any other suitable storage
place. Two handlers, the :class:`LocalFileHandler` and the :class:`AzureBlobHandler`
are available out-of-the-box. Custom handlers are easily set up by inheriting from
:class:`~fourinsight.engineroom.utils.core.BaseHandler`.

.. note::
    In the Cookbook section there is an :ref:`example<example_custom_handler_ftp>`
    on how you can set up a custom handler based on FTP.

The :class:`LocalFileHandler` is used to store text content in a local file.

.. code-block:: python

    from fourinsight.engineroom.utils import LocalFileHandler


    handler = LocalFileHandler(<file-path>)

The :class:`AzureBlobHandler` is used to store text content in *Azure Blob Storage*.

.. code-block:: python

    from fourinsight.engineroom.utils import AzureBlobHandler


    handler = AzureBlobHandler(<connection-string>, <container-name>, <blob-name>)

The handlers behave like *streams*, and provide all the normal stream capabilities.

.. code-block:: python

    # Write text content to stream
    handler.write("Hello, World!")

    # Read stream content
    handler.read()

    # Write 'pandas.DataFrame' to stream
    df.to_csv(handler)

    # Load 'pandas.DataFrame' from stream
    df = pd.read_csv(handler, index_col=0)

    # etc...

In addition, downloading and uploading of the text content is provided by a push/pull
strategy; content is retrieved from the source by a ``pull()`` request, and uploaded
to the source by a ``push()``.


State
-----

Sometimes it is useful to remember the current 'state' of your Python application.
Using the :class:`PersistentJSON` class and an appropriate :ref:`handler<text_content_handlers>`,
key state parameters can be stored persistently at a remote location, and be available
next time the application runs.

:class:`PersistentJSON` behaves similar to dictionaries, and can keep track of state
parameters in key/value pairs.

.. code-block:: python

    from fourinsight.engineroom.utils import PersistentJSON


    state = PersistentJSON(handler)

Values can be updated,

.. code-block:: python

    new_state = {"state parameter #1": 0, "State parameter #2": "some value"}
    state.update(new_state)

And retrieved,

.. code-block:: python

    state.get("state parameter #1")

As well as deleted, printed, etc...

.. code-block:: python

    # Delete
    del state["state parameter #1]

    # Print
    print(state)

    # etc...

To store the state for later, you simply just update the source with a ``push()``.

.. code-block:: python

    # Update remote source
    state.push()

Then, the state is available next time you run your script by doing a ``pull()``.

.. code-block:: python

    # Update state from remote source
    state.pull()


Collect and store results
-------------------------
The :class:`ResultCollector` is a useful tool when you want to collect and store results.
The basic usage is illustrated with the examples below.

.. code-block:: python

    from fourinsight.engineroom.utils import ResultCollector


    headers = {"a": float, "b": str} # collect parameter 'a' as 'float' and 'b' as 'string'
    results = ResultCollector(headers)

    # make a new row
    results.new_row()

    # collect some results for that row
    results.collect(a=1.0, b="some text")

    # make another row
    results.new_row()

    # collect some results for the new row
    results.collect(a=1.5, b="some more text")

    # return the results as a 'pandas.DataFrame'
    df = results.dataframe


If you are dealing with time-dependent results, and want to 'stamp' the results
with a datetime value, this is facilitated by setting 'indexing_mode' to 'timestamp'
during initialization. Then, a datetime value must be passed to :meth:`.new_row()` when
collecting results.

.. code-block:: python

    headers = {"a": float, "b": str}
    results = ResultCollector(headers, indexing_mode="timestamp")

    # stamp the results with a datetime value
    results.new_row("2020-01-01 00:00")

    # and collect your results
    results.collect(a=1.0)


By initializing with a suitable :ref:`handler<text_content_handlers>`, results can
be pushed and pulled from a source.

.. code-block:: python

    headers = {"a": float, "b": str}
    results = ResultCollector(headers, handler=handler)

    # pull the results from an existing source
    results.pull()

    # make a new row
    results.new_row()

    # collect some more results
    results.collect(a=1.0)

    # update the source with the latest results
    results.push()
